README.md, before:

# Project Proposal

Names: James Chen, Matthew Dong, Jonathan Zhou, Rohan Khanderia

## Project Name

**QuizVerse**

## What and Why?

Trying to learn something new can be hard. Studying consistently can be even harder. Meet **QuizVerse**: your new study tool and accountability buddy, all in one app.

Spaced repetition is a proven strategy with flashcards to help memory retention in learning. In this system, a learner categorizes their flashcards by their difficulty, and they repeatedly study the flashcards they struggle with the most repeatedly over several study sessions. Not only does this increase a learner's exposure to hard topics, spaced out study sessions have also been shown to be more effective and efficient than cramming.

All of these strategies are great, but they can be hard to implement on your own with clunky boxes of flashcards. Let QuizVerse do the heavy lifting for you.

Whenever you have someting new to learn, just upload or type out your flashcards on QuizVerse and choose how many flashcards you want to review everyday. The app will remind you to study daily and give you points for a successful study session. Want to study beyond your scheduled daily sessions? QuizVerse also lets you freely study whenever you choose.

Who said studying couldn't be fun *and* fast?

## For whom?

QuizVerse is designed with both students (like us) and teachers in mind, to help create a platform for learning through spaced repetition. For students approaching a new subject and preparing for an upcoming exam, to teachers who want to create an aggregated flashcard set to provide to their class, QuizVerse is created with all those use cases in mind. QuizVerse will work to maximize retention and activity for students through gamification, drawing from experience working with different platforms that offer services to self-study.

## How?

First, create a username and password to create an account to save your flashcards under.

To add new flashcards, just enter them as text or as images. You can also categorize the flashcards by the due date and subject.

In your daily study session, QuizVerse will provide you with one side of the flashcard, and you'll have to recall what's on the other side. By completing your daily study session, you will receive points and extend your study streak. Your study streak will be displayed whenever you enter the app.

You can also study on demand whenever you want to get points. You can narrow down what you want to study by subject or other category.

Want to see how you're doing and what you need to spend more time on? QuizVerse can you show your study statistics and tell you which concepts you are doing better with.

With QuizVerse, you can also share a set of flashcards with your friends and classmates. If you're a teacher or professor, you can create a flashcard set to share with your students. Your shared flashcards can also be password protected for privacy.

## Scope

The base website will only need to include a way to add flashcards and a way to have them appear at certain times during studying. We can track the date to keep track of the spaced repetition.

Previous projects have shown that creating a website with a sign in feature and multiple features is possible for groups of 4-5 in a semester, and our project appears to be a similar amount of work.

If the base part of the project is too easy, we have many ideas for how to add new features. Some of these ideas include cosmetic customizations for the website and different features that can be purchased after gaining points from study streaks, and accessibility features such as text to speech and font size.

Commit message:

Add language translation to additional ideas

README.md, after:

# Project Proposal

Names: James Chen, Matthew Dong, Jonathan Zhou, Rohan Khanderia

## Project Name

**QuizVerse**

## What and Why?

Trying to learn something new can be hard. Studying consistently can be even harder. Meet **QuizVerse**: your new study tool and accountability buddy, all in one app.

Spaced repetition is a proven strategy with flashcards to help memory retention in learning. In this system, a learner categorizes their flashcards by their difficulty, and they repeatedly study the flashcards they struggle with the most repeatedly over several study sessions. Not only does this increase a learner's exposure to hard topics, spaced out study sessions have also been shown to be more effective and efficient than cramming.

All of these strategies are great, but they can be hard to implement on your own with clunky boxes of flashcards. Let QuizVerse do the heavy lifting for you.

Whenever you have someting new to learn, just upload or type out your flashcards on QuizVerse and choose how many flashcards you want to review everyday. The app will remind you to study daily and give you points for a successful study session. Want to study beyond your scheduled daily sessions? QuizVerse also lets you freely study whenever you choose.

Who said studying couldn't be fun *and* fast?

## For whom?

QuizVerse is designed with both students (like us) and teachers in mind, to help create a platform for learning through spaced repetition. For students approaching a new subject and preparing for an upcoming exam, to teachers who want to create an aggregated flashcard set to provide to their class, QuizVerse is created with all those use cases in mind. QuizVerse will work to maximize retention and activity for students through gamification, drawing from experience working with different platforms that offer services to self-study.

## How?

First, create a username and password to create an account to save your flashcards under.

To add new flashcards, just enter them as text or as images. You can also categorize the flashcards by the due date and subject.

In your daily study session, QuizVerse will provide you with one side of the flashcard, and you'll have to recall what's on the other side. By completing your daily study session, you will receive points and extend your study streak. Your study streak will be displayed whenever you enter the app.

You can also study on demand whenever you want to get points. You can narrow down what you want to study by subject or other category.

Want to see how you're doing and what you need to spend more time on? QuizVerse can you show your study statistics and tell you which concepts you are doing better with.

With QuizVerse, you can also share a set of flashcards with your friends and classmates. If you're a teacher or professor, you can create a flashcard set to share with your students. Your shared flashcards can also be password protected for privacy.

## Scope

The base website will only need to include a way to add flashcards and a way to have them appear at certain times during studying. We can track the date to keep track of the spaced repetition.

Previous projects have shown that creating a website with a sign in feature and multiple features is possible for groups of 4-5 in a semester, and our project appears to be a similar amount of work.

If the base part of the project is too easy, we have many ideas for how to add new features. Some of these ideas include cosmetic customizations for the website and different features that can be purchased after gaining points from study streaks, accessibility features such as text to speech and font size, and an implementation of a language translation API to help language learners or those who prefer to learn in a language comfortable to them.
